README.md, before:

# Linear Hill Charts

Visualize your Linear issues as interactive hill charts. Track progress from "figuring things out" to "making it happen" with an intuitive drag-and-drop interface.

<img width="1660" height="700" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8a9f1d8a-61ce-4bce-84ea-88a23ef96889" />

[Live app](https://linear-hills.routific.com/)


## Features

- **OAuth 2.0 Authentication** - Secure integration with Linear's official OAuth flow
- **Auto-sync** with Linear issues based on labels
- **Drag-and-drop** positioning to track progress
- **Multiple projects** - organize different hill charts
- **Browser storage** - positions persist locally
- **Real-time updates** - syncs with Linear every 5 minutes
- **Token refresh** - automatic token renewal for uninterrupted access

Note that this currently only works for single player mode as positions are stored on localStorage.

### The Hill Metaphor

- **Left side (0-50%)**: "Figuring it out"
  - High uncertainty
  - Exploration and discovery
  - Understanding the problem

- **Peak (50%)**: Maximum uncertainty
  - Transition point
  - Key decisions being made

- **Right side (50-100%)**: "Making it happen"
  - Decreasing uncertainty
  - Execution mode
  - Shipping and finishing

### Using the Interface

- **Drag horizontally** - Move issues along the hill to update their progress
- **Color indicators** - Priority levels shown by colored dots
  - Red: Urgent
  - Orange: High
  - Blue: Medium
  - Gray: Low
- **Sync button** - Manually refresh issues from Linear
- **Auto-sync** - Issues automatically refresh every 5 minutes


## Development Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20.3.0 or higher
- A Linear account with workspace admin access
- Linear OAuth application credentials

### OAuth Application Setup

1. **Create a Linear OAuth Application**:
   - Go to [Linear Settings > API > Applications](https://linear.app/settings/api/applications)
   - Click "New OAuth application"
   - Fill in the application details:
     - **Name**: Linear Hill Charts
     - **Description**: Visualize Linear issues as interactive hill charts
     - **Redirect URLs**: Add your callback URLs:
       - Development: `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback`
       - Production: `https://yourdomain.com/api/auth/callback`
     - **Scopes**: Select `read` and `write`

2. **Copy your OAuth credentials**:
   - Client ID
   - Client Secret (keep this secure!)

### Installation

1. **Clone or download** this repository

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables**:
   ```bash
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

   Edit `.env.local` and add your OAuth credentials:
   ```env
   LINEAR_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
   LINEAR_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret_here
   LINEAR_OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback
   SESSION_SECRET=your_random_session_secret_here
   NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
   ```

   Generate a secure session secret:
   ```bash
   openssl rand -base64 32
   ```

4. **Run the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open your browser** to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### First-Time Setup

1. Click "Connect with Linear" on the setup page
2. Authorize the application in Linear
3. Create your first project:
   - Choose a name for your hill chart
   - Select a Linear team
   - Enter a label filter (e.g., "hill-chart")
4. Add the label to issues in Linear that you want to track
5. Start dragging issues along the hill to track their progress!

## How Hill Charts Work

Hill charts are inspired by [Basecamp's hill charts](https://basecamp.com/features/hill-charts) and provide a visual way to track project progress:


## Project Structure

```
├── app/                      # Next.js app directory
│   ├── api/
│   │   └── auth/            # OAuth API routes
│   │       ├── login/       # Initiate OAuth flow
│   │       ├── callback/    # OAuth callback handler
│   │       ├── token/       # Token endpoint with auto-refresh
│   │       ├── logout/      # Logout and token revocation
│   │       └── session/     # Session status check
│   ├── setup/               # OAuth login page
│   ├── projects/            # Projects list and individual views
│   ├── layout.tsx           # Root layout with providers
│   └── page.tsx             # Home page (redirects)
├── components/
│   ├── hill-chart/          # Hill chart visualization
│   ├── projects/            # Project management UI
│   ├── layout/              # Layout components
│   └── ui/                  # Reusable UI components
├── lib/
│   ├── auth/                # OAuth and session management
│   │   ├── oauth.ts         # OAuth utilities
│   │   └── session.ts       # Encrypted session management
│   ├── linear/              # Linear API integration
│   ├── storage/             # localStorage management
│   ├── store/               # Zustand state management
│   ├── hooks/               # React hooks
│   └── utils/               # Utility functions
└── types/                   # TypeScript type definitions
```

## Technical Details

### Built With

- **Next.js 15** - React framework with App Router
- **TypeScript** - Type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** - Styling
- **Zustand** - State management
- **React Query** - Server state
- **Linear SDK** - Linear API client
- **Zod** - Runtime validation

### Authentication & Security

- **OAuth 2.0** - Industry-standard authorization protocol
- **PKCE** - Proof Key for Code Exchange for enhanced security
- **Encrypted Sessions** - Server-side encrypted cookie sessions
- **Automatic Token Refresh** - Tokens refresh automatically before expiration
- **Secure Storage** - OAuth tokens never stored in browser localStorage
- **CSRF Protection** - State parameter validation

### Data Storage

- **OAuth Tokens**: Encrypted server-side session cookies
- **Projects**: Browser localStorage
- **Issue Positions**: Browser localStorage
- **Issue Metadata**: Fetched from Linear (not stored)

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run type-check` - Run TypeScript type checking

## License

MIT

## Acknowledgments

- Hill chart concept inspired by [Basecamp](https://basecamp.com)
- Built with tools from [Linear](https://linear.app)
- UI components from [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com)

Commit message:

add how it works section

README.md, after:

# Linear Hill Charts

Visualize your Linear issues as interactive hill charts. Track progress from "figuring things out" to "making it happen" with an intuitive drag-and-drop interface.

<img width="1660" height="700" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8a9f1d8a-61ce-4bce-84ea-88a23ef96889" />

[Live app](https://linear-hills.routific.com/)

## How It Works

Here's what this app assumes:
- A pitch in Shape Up maps to a Linear Project.
- An issue with a label (e.g. Slice) maps to a slice in Shape Up.

1. Connect your Linear account with OAuth
2. Create a "New Hillchart" and choose your Linear project to create it for
3. Choose what label you'd like to use as slices to sync
4. Issues that are started are put on the hill chart
5. Drag 'n drop and relish in your progress!


## Features

- **OAuth 2.0 Authentication** - Secure integration with Linear's official OAuth flow
- **Auto-sync** with Linear issues based on labels
- **Drag-and-drop** positioning to track progress
- **Multiple projects** - organize different hill charts
- **Browser storage** - positions persist locally
- **Real-time updates** - syncs with Linear every 5 minutes
- **Token refresh** - automatic token renewal for uninterrupted access

Note that this currently only works for single player mode as positions are stored on localStorage.

### The Hill Metaphor

- **Left side (0-50%)**: "Figuring it out"
  - High uncertainty
  - Exploration and discovery
  - Understanding the problem

- **Peak (50%)**: Maximum uncertainty
  - Transition point
  - Key decisions being made

- **Right side (50-100%)**: "Making it happen"
  - Decreasing uncertainty
  - Execution mode
  - Shipping and finishing

### Using the Interface

- **Drag horizontally** - Move issues along the hill to update their progress
- **Color indicators** - Priority levels shown by colored dots
  - Red: Urgent
  - Orange: High
  - Blue: Medium
  - Gray: Low
- **Sync button** - Manually refresh issues from Linear
- **Auto-sync** - Issues automatically refresh every 5 minutes


## Development Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20.3.0 or higher
- A Linear account with workspace admin access
- Linear OAuth application credentials

### OAuth Application Setup

1. **Create a Linear OAuth Application**:
   - Go to [Linear Settings > API > Applications](https://linear.app/settings/api/applications)
   - Click "New OAuth application"
   - Fill in the application details:
     - **Name**: Linear Hill Charts
     - **Description**: Visualize Linear issues as interactive hill charts
     - **Redirect URLs**: Add your callback URLs:
       - Development: `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback`
       - Production: `https://yourdomain.com/api/auth/callback`
     - **Scopes**: Select `read` and `write`

2. **Copy your OAuth credentials**:
   - Client ID
   - Client Secret (keep this secure!)

### Installation

1. **Clone or download** this repository

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables**:
   ```bash
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

   Edit `.env.local` and add your OAuth credentials:
   ```env
   LINEAR_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
   LINEAR_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret_here
   LINEAR_OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback
   SESSION_SECRET=your_random_session_secret_here
   NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
   ```

   Generate a secure session secret:
   ```bash
   openssl rand -base64 32
   ```

4. **Run the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open your browser** to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### First-Time Setup

1. Click "Connect with Linear" on the setup page
2. Authorize the application in Linear
3. Create your first project:
   - Choose a name for your hill chart
   - Select a Linear team
   - Enter a label filter (e.g., "hill-chart")
4. Add the label to issues in Linear that you want to track
5. Start dragging issues along the hill to track their progress!

## How Hill Charts Work

Hill charts are inspired by [Basecamp's hill charts](https://basecamp.com/features/hill-charts) and provide a visual way to track project progress:


## Project Structure

```
├── app/                      # Next.js app directory
│   ├── api/
│   │   └── auth/            # OAuth API routes
│   │       ├── login/       # Initiate OAuth flow
│   │       ├── callback/    # OAuth callback handler
│   │       ├── token/       # Token endpoint with auto-refresh
│   │       ├── logout/      # Logout and token revocation
│   │       └── session/     # Session status check
│   ├── setup/               # OAuth login page
│   ├── projects/            # Projects list and individual views
│   ├── layout.tsx           # Root layout with providers
│   └── page.tsx             # Home page (redirects)
├── components/
│   ├── hill-chart/          # Hill chart visualization
│   ├── projects/            # Project management UI
│   ├── layout/              # Layout components
│   └── ui/                  # Reusable UI components
├── lib/
│   ├── auth/                # OAuth and session management
│   │   ├── oauth.ts         # OAuth utilities
│   │   └── session.ts       # Encrypted session management
│   ├── linear/              # Linear API integration
│   ├── storage/             # localStorage management
│   ├── store/               # Zustand state management
│   ├── hooks/               # React hooks
│   └── utils/               # Utility functions
└── types/                   # TypeScript type definitions
```

## Technical Details

### Built With

- **Next.js 15** - React framework with App Router
- **TypeScript** - Type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** - Styling
- **Zustand** - State management
- **React Query** - Server state
- **Linear SDK** - Linear API client
- **Zod** - Runtime validation

### Authentication & Security

- **OAuth 2.0** - Industry-standard authorization protocol
- **PKCE** - Proof Key for Code Exchange for enhanced security
- **Encrypted Sessions** - Server-side encrypted cookie sessions
- **Automatic Token Refresh** - Tokens refresh automatically before expiration
- **Secure Storage** - OAuth tokens never stored in browser localStorage
- **CSRF Protection** - State parameter validation

### Data Storage

- **OAuth Tokens**: Encrypted server-side session cookies
- **Projects**: Browser localStorage
- **Issue Positions**: Browser localStorage
- **Issue Metadata**: Fetched from Linear (not stored)

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run start` - Start production server
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run type-check` - Run TypeScript type checking

## License

MIT

## Acknowledgments

- Hill chart concept inspired by [Basecamp](https://basecamp.com)
- Built with tools from [Linear](https://linear.app)
- UI components from [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com)
